# Scripts
Before running any scripts, ensure the `LLVM_BUILD_DIR` environment variable is set correctly.

## instrument.sh
### Overview
instrument.sh generates the instrumented LLVM IR for the patched C file. First, it uses LLVM's clang to generate the LLVM IR. Then, using `ninja` it builds LLVM with the [AutoPatchFirstPass](Passes/AutoPatchFirstPass/) pass. Finally, using LLVM's opt, it runs the [AutoPatchFirstPass](Passes/AutoPatchFirstPass/) pass on the generated LLVM IR to produce the instrumented LLVM IR.

### Operation
Run `instrument.sh` in the shell. Provide the patched C file, indicate whether or not it is a patched function. If it is, provide the line numbers containing the patch. If it isn't, no instrumentation will be done.

## analysis.sh
### Overview
analysis.sh generates the executable object file targetting specific hardware. First, using `ninja` it builds LLVM with the [AutoPatchSecondPass](Passes/AutoPatchSecondPass/) pass. Then, it runs the [AutoPatchSecondPass](Passes/AutoPatchSecondPass/) pass on the instrumented LLVM IR to produce a new LLVM IR file. Finally, compiling using LLVM's clang, it generates the executable object file.

### Operation
Run analysis.sh in the shell. Provide the `.bc` IR file generated by `instrument.sh`. Provide the name of the function that was patched, and the line numbers of the patch once again. Indicate whether the patch is of type `filter` or `replace`. `filter` indicates additional checking logic to filter out bad inputs, while `replace` indicates the patch introduces new logic or calls another function. Further indicate whether the patch is of type `redirect`, `drop`, or `none`. `redirect` indicates that control returns to the patched function. `drop` indicates a return from the patched function. `none` indicates control flow continues as is. Finally, provide the CVE-id.